.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Benjamin Stürz <benni@stuerz.xyz>
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt FUSE-UFS 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fuse-ufs
.Nd FUSE3 implementation FreeBSD's UFSv2
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm fuse-ufs
.\" TODO: options
.Op Fl o Ar options
.Ar special
.Ar mountpoint
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
allows you to mount a FreeBSD UFSv2 filesystem.
.\" TODO: expand + mention bi-endian support

The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl o Ar opt,[opt...]
Mount options, see below for details.
.It Fl o Ar allow_other
Allow other users to access the mounted filesystem.
.It Fl o Ar allow_root
Allow the root user to access the mounted filesystem.
.It Fl o Ar default_permissions
Let the kernel check file permissions.
This is already the default for this filesystem.
.It Fl o Ar dev|nodev
Allow/prohibit using devices on the mounted filesystem.
.It Fl o Ar exec|noexec
Allow/prohibit executing programs from the mounted filesystem.
.It Fl o Ar suid|nosuid
Allow/prohibit honoring the setuid-bit when running programs from the mounted filesystem.
.It Fl o Ar async|atime|dirsync|noatime|sync|ro
These options have no effect on the mounted filesystem,
as there is no write support yet.
.It Fl o Ar rw
As write support is not present, this option causes the program to crash.
.It Fl h , -help
Print a help page and exit.
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Ev RUST_LOG
one of: error, warn, info, debug, trace
.\" TODO: this looks ugly
.Sh FILES
.\" TODO
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Mount /dev/sda1 onto /mnt:
.Pp
.Dl $ fuse-ufs /dev/sda1 /mnt
.Pp
The same, but allow other users to access the mounted filesystem:
.Pp
.Dl $ fuse-ufs -o allow_other /dev/sda1 /mnt
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mount 8
.Sh HISTORY
.\" TODO: give credit to Kirk McKusick for UFS
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Benjamin Stürz Aq Mt benni@stuerz.xyz
.An Alan Somers Aq Mt asomers@freebsd.org
.Sh CAVEATS
Only 64-bit Linux & FreeBSD systems have been tested to work.
Support for other systems (like MacOS) will be on a best-effort basis for now.

Missing features:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
Write Support (TODO)
.It
Soft-Updates (TODO)
.It
Sun/Solaris UFS (TODO)
.It
Snapshots
.It
ACLs
.El
.Sh BUGS
This software is not yet ready to be used in production,
as it contains unfixed bugs that lead to crashes.
